# Flu project proposal

Hello, everyone! I am a second-year computational biology and anthropology major. I am particularly interested in exploring history of infectious disease. There is a wealth of knowledge surrounding the 1918-19 influenza epidemic in the US, especially after the emergence of COVID-19. During the 1918 flu epidemic, state public health agencies heavily relied on non-pharmaceutical interventions (NPIs) like mask-wearing, social distancing, and school closures to stop the spread of the disease. There are many resources documenting how people reacted to the disease as well as influenza case counts, specifically documented in the Influenza Archive linked here: https://www.influenzaarchive.org/.

I am looking to develop a project analyzing attitudes towards NPIs throughout the 1918-19 Influenza outbreak in the US. The question would be: How did Pittsburgh’s residents’ attitudes about the 1918-1919 flu outbreak and NPIs change as the epidemic progressed?

First, the team and I would conduct some preliminary research identifying how the epidemic generally progressed in Pittsburgh by reading research articles from disciplines like history of medicine. From there, we will identify primary sources that would best reflect the attitudes of people living through the epidemic. For now, newspapers from the Influenza Archive seem to be the best source, but we will look for more as we develop the project. The team and I would read these primary sources and determine what the dominant themes or attitudes were. Then, we would conduct document analysis and mark up the documents for language that characterize the epidemic or NPIs. Comparing this against how the epidemic progressed, we can look at how attitudes changed as time progressed.

Even though I proposed that we study Pittsburgh, there are many other cities we can also study! Based on how much or little information we find on a particular aspect of the flu epidemic, we can change what we are researching in the early stages. If you are interested, I would love to hear suggestions or collaborate on this project! 
